# Mounting Drives

To automatically mount a partition to a specific location, an entry must be added to the `/etc/fstab` file. An example
entry looks like the following:

```
/dev/sdb1 /storage/disk2p1 ext4 defaults 0 0
```

In order, the fields of the entry are as follows:

```
[device] [mounting directory] [file system] [options] [dump] [fsck]
```

These fields have the following meanings:
1. Device: the name of the physical device
2. Mounting Directory: the directory to which the device is mounted
3. File System: the type of the file system for the device (e.g. ext2, ext3, swap, etc.)
4. Options: mounting options and settings
5. Dump: priority option for the `dump` backup utility (if 0, then no backup; if non-zero, value represents order of backup)
6. fsck: priority option for the `fsck` file system check utility (if 0, then no check; if non-zero, value represents order of check)

## Using UUID and Label for `/etc/fstab`

The example `/etc/fstab` entry above works:

```
/dev/sdb1 /storage/disk2p1 ext4 defaults 0 0
```

However, there is a potential problem with adding entries like this one. `/dev/sdb1` is the first partition of the
second hard drive in the computer. Likewise, `/dev/sda1` is the first partition of the first hard drive, `/dev/sda2` is
the second partition of the first hard drive, and `/dev/sdb2` is the second partition of the second hard drive. However,
there is no guarantee that `/dev/sdb1` will always be `/dev/sdb1`. If the hard drives are reordered on the motherboard,
their device names will change and the drives will be mounted to the wrong points, possibly resulting in data loss
and/or corruption.

The solution to this potential problem is to use device UUIDs or LABELs instead of device names. UUIDs are unique
identifiers generated by the system for each device and partition. Even between different systems, the probability of
duplicate UUIDs is almost zero. LABELs are short names that can be configured by the user when he formats a partition.
LABELs are helpful, but may not be unique between multiple systems.

### Finding the UUID and LABEL of a Partition

To find the UUID of a drive (and the LABEL, if one exists) use the following command:

```shell
sudo blkid | grep -v loop
```

### Mounting Partitions Using UUID or LABEL

To mount a drive partition using the UUID or LABEL instead of the device name, modify the above example `/etc/fstab` entry as
follows:

```
UUID=bd5808de-29e9-4ba4-ae80-343d1a227cc8 /storage/disk2p1 ext4 defaults 0 0
LABEL=home /storage/disk2p1 ext4 defaults 0 0
```

## Tips

* `mount` does not assign permissions to the drive; permissions are controlled by the bits on the directory within the file system after it's mounted
